A raft of new Saudi restaurants offer healthier alternatives to traditional fare. AFP/Fayez Nureldine RIYADH - Long partial to heavy lunchtime platters of meat and rice, Asim al-Shammari has recently turned to lighter fare from a self-described diet restaurant, swayed by Saudi Arabia's anti-obesity push. Roughly one in five Saudi adults is obese, according to an in-depth study published by the World Bank last year that described the problem as "alarming". The Global Obesity Observatory places the kingdom at number 17 in its international rankings of obesity prevalence, three slots below the United States and near neighbours Qatar and Kuwait. But the Vision 2030 reform agenda spearheaded by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman includes goals for bringing down both obesity and diabetes by decade's end. The effort is being helped by a raft of new restaurants offering healthier alternatives to some traditional Saudi fare, including the spot where Shammari, a financial analyst, tucked into a plate of chicken, rice and carrots one recent afternoon. - Lifestyle change - For decades, Saudis spent much of their free time in restaurants and shopping malls, and food was a chief source of entertainment in the closed-off kingdom, where high temperatures limit outdoor activities for much of the year. Burgers, shawarma and kabsa are facing more competition In 2019, the health ministry started requiring restaurants to include calorie information on menus to encourage healthy eating. Fast food options -- from international favourites like McDonald's to local chains like AlBaik -- remain ubiquitous in the kingdom's main cities, but they are starting to face more varied competition. A growing number of restaurants are offering meal plans that send salads and other healthy meals to clients' homes and workplaces. One such plan provides a meal a day for a month for 450 Saudi riyals ($120). - Targeting the youth - Efforts by restaurants and other private sector businesses to promote healthy eating have been supplemented by other health-minded interventions. The Saudi Sports for All Federation now organises regular events like the Riyadh Marathon, which this year drew thousands of runners to the streets of Riyadh. Officials have also begun work on a 135-kilometre Sports Boulevard in the capital featuring foot, cycle and horse-riding paths. Beginning with the current academic year, the Saudi health ministry has banned the sale of soft drinks in schools. The message seems to be getting through, at least among young people, said public health consultant Lamia al-Brahim.