Leipzig head coach Marco Rose talks to French forward Christopher Nkunku. The forward has 12 goals in the league for Leipzig this season, the second-highest in the Bundesliga. AFP/Ronny Hartmann BERLIN - RB Leipzig coach Marco Rose said French international striker Christopher Nkunku could make his first start in several months when they play title rivals Borussia Dortmund on Friday. "At some point, the day will come when we want Christopher's quality from the start. He's had a normal week of training and is an option (against Dortmund)," Rose said. Nkunku missed the World Cup finals after injuring his leg at France's preparation camp in November leading to him being on the sidelines for almost three months. Nkunku came off the bench and made an assist in Leipzig's 3-0 win away at Wolfsburg in mid-February. The former Paris Saint-Germain forward, who has been linked with a possible move to the Premier League in summer, has since made two appearances off the bench including the 1-1 draw with Manchester City in their Champions League Last 16 first-leg match. Rose said at his eve-of-match press conference he did not hold a grudge against Dortmund, who sacked him in May 2022, after just one season in charge, despite a second-placed finish. "It is what it is. I don't have the feeling that I was negatively impacted," he said. "Things worked out in such a way that I'm now the coach in Leipzig." Leipzig-born Rose took over after the sacking of Domenico Tedesco in early September and has since picked up 37 points in 17 games, a better record than any other club in the Bundesliga. Dortmund come into the match equal on points atop the Bundesliga table with Bayern Munich after a nine-match winning streak. Leipzig sit four points back in fourth place. "Dortmund's winning streak and the confidence that it gives them makes them very tough opponents," said Rose. "They've put a great run together and have a lot of individual quality. "We will need to work hard to deal with the power and the force that Dortmund have going forward."