Media personality, Mark Pilgrim, has died aged 53. Pilgrim lost his battle with cancer this morning. Hot 102.7 FM Managing Director Lloyd Madurai spoke to eNCA. #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Tributes have poured in for radio personality, Mark Pilgrim, who died of cancer aged 53 on Sunday morning. He was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer in February last year. He later revealed that the cancer had spread to his spine and lymph nodes. Pilgrim documented his fight against the disease through his social media account. Including the days he spent in hospital and kept his fans motivated about his determination to fight. Hot 102.7 FM Managing Director Lloyd Madurai remembered him as someone everyone wanted to be around. On rare occasions, a special type of person displays the courage and strength to take on the world even when hope seems lost.
Mark, you had me believing you were going to win this fight.
I'm so so sorry.
Sincere condolences to your family.
Rest in peace my friend.#MarkPilgrim Terribly sad news that Mark Pilgrim has passed away. He fought so courageously.
Mark was always so friendly, so professional and just a pleasure to work with.
Thoughts are with his fiancé, his daughters and his colleagues. May his memory be a blessing to you all. My heart is shattered. Mark Pilgrim has just passed away. My friend, you fought so hard. HOT1027 DJ Mark Pilgrim lost his battle with cancer this morning. “He fought valiantly to the very end. Mark passed peacefully with his fiancé Adrienne at home.” Mark Pilgrim documented the highs and lows of his battle against cancer in a way that showed his massive love of his family, his determination to fight for as long as he could and his profound humility.
We were blessed to know you Mark.
Your life was a light.#RIPMarkPilgram pic.twitter.com/liNYbstGTG Rest well to one of my favorite voices, a inspiration to many, a incredible man.
Mark Pilgrim
RIP My dear friend Mark Pilgrim passed away today… he fought harder than I thought was humanly possible. My sincere condolences to Adrienne and his daughter and all who knew him. I am heartbroken - go well my friend.