 Tributes continue to pour for the late Richards Bay captain Siphamandla Mtolo. The 29-year-old passed away after collapsing during a training session yesterday. Mtolo led the Natal Rich Boyz during their narrow loss to Kaizer Chiefs last Saturday. eNCA Sports Reporter Siphokazi Malinga joins us from UThongathi FC training base in Durban, Mtolo's former club. #dstv403 RICHARDS BAY - The South African football community is in mourning following the tragic death of Richards Bay captain, Siphamandla Mtolo. The Natal Rich Boys star died after collapsing during training on Tuesday. The 29-year-old captained the KZN side when they won the Motsepe Foundation Championship last season. READ: Richards Bay FC confirm Mtolo's passing His journey in the top flight had just begun after missing a huge chunk of the first half through injury. The Premier Soccer League has expressed its sadness at the news. It says a moment of silence will be observed at all Nedbank Cup and Diski Challenge fixtures this week. We are deeply saddened to learn about the passing of Richards Bay FC footballer Siphamandla Mtolo
Condolences to his family, his teammates, and his loved ones. May his soul rest in eternal peace 🕊 pic.twitter.com/bMoRkKCDmd Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family and Richards Bay FC following the tragic passing of Siphamandla Mtolo.
May his soul rest in peace.#Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/zD51a6SouM The PSL is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Richards Bay Football Club midfielder, Siphamandla Mtolo.
A moment of silence will be observed in his honour at this week’s Nedbank Cup and DStv Diski Challenge fixtures.
May his soul repose peacefully. https://t.co/oFLpEpwKzC We are deeply saddened by the news that Richards Bay defender Siphamandla Mtolo has passed away.
Our thoughts and condolences are with Siphamandla's friends and family during this time pic.twitter.com/IZr8cZCqR6 Lamontville Golden Arrows send their condolences to Siphamandla Mtolo's family, as well as Richards Bay FC, on the news of his passing.
Wishing you peace, comfort, courage, and lots of love at this time of sorrow. #SthendeWay pic.twitter.com/non3YbpbWe Courtesy of #DStv403