Mechanical Yoshis, Piranha Plants and Goombas from the beloved Super Mario gaming franchise greet visitors at Super Nintendo World. AFP/Chris Delmas LOS ANGELES - Nintendo's first theme park outside of its native Japan will open in California next month, just weeks before Mario gets the big-screen treatment in a major new Hollywood film. Super Nintendo World will be part of Universal Studios Hollywood -- an amusement park that is traditionally home to rides based on film and TV franchises from "Waterworld" to "Harry Potter." The new Nintendo attraction will largely mirror the design of its recently opened, slightly larger sister park in Osaka, including a "Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge" ride that uses augmented reality goggles. Visitors race along a real-life track surrounded by actual set pieces, but can aim and shoot virtual shells at computerized villains they see displayed on their head-mounted, individual visors. Super Nintendo World will be part of Universal Studios Hollywood There are also a number of mini-games in which visitors with interactive wristbands can accrue coins and stamps, to qualify for a "final showdown" with the evil Bowser Jr. "It's kind of the ultimate playground," said Jon Corfino, vice president of Universal Creative. "We are known for our film franchises, which are terrific, and they're very immersive. Games are a different thing. "How we even engage with entertainment is evolving in and of itself... entertainment is not static." Visitors race along a real-life track surrounded by actual set pieces at the new Super Nintendo World theme park Nintendo fans have already begun flocking to the Los Angeles amusement park, where word quickly spread last week that the new attraction was admitting visitors for a "soft opening" to iron out any final technical glitches. The official launch of Super Nintendo World is set for February 17, when visitors surrounded by mechanical Yoshis, Piranha Plants and Goombas from the beloved gaming franchise will be greeted by actors dressed as Mario, Luigi and Princess Peach. A third Nintendo theme park will follow in Orlando.