Vienna's winter ball season is back in full swing after Covid restrictions wiped it out for two years in a row. AFP/Alex Halada VIENNA - After Covid restrictions had wiped out Vienna's glamorous winter ball season for two years in a row, 50-year-old Wahyuni couldn't wait any longer to get all dolled up and put on her dazzling floral-patterned ballgown to once again waltz the night away. "We love to come here, because the very nice decorations are made out of real flowers and it's very lovely," Wahyuni said, alongside her friend Deasy, who declined to give their full names, as both were attending the legendary Flower Ball in Vienna's neo-Gothic city hall. Known for being one of the most beautifully decorated winter balls among the approximately 450 hosted in the Austrian capital each season, the Flower Ball showcases mesmerising floral arrangements skillfully crafted out of 100,000 blossoms. Donning snow-white dresses and classy black evening suits, four first-time debutants said they were "quite nervous" about opening the ball.  The Flower Ball kicks off Vienna's winter ball season The self-described "rookies" said they had attended dance classes for a couple of hours every week since September to be prepared. The rhythm of the waltz can be tricky and 17-year-old classmate Emma said she was particularly afraid of dropping her flower bouquet. "People come here with the expectation of experiencing spring" as opposed to the grey, foggy winters so prevalent in Vienna, Peter Hucik, art director of the Flower Ball told AFP. Even though the ball is not sold out, Hucik said he is pleased that 2,400 visitors are attending Friday's ball, kicking off the season as one of Vienna's first big balls. About one-tenth of the ballgoers each year come especially from abroad. On average every ballgoer spends around 320 euros per ball. Vienna is expected to rake in 170 million euros ($184 million) this ball season The tradition dates back to the 18th century, when the balls of the Habsburg royal court ceased to be reserved for the aristocracy alone. The Viennese began adopting court customs for their own soirees, soon launching balls dedicated to hunters, cafe owners and florists. The Viennese used the opportunity to approach the opposite sex, lavishly wine, dine, spy and dance. Therefore the famous ball season "loosely follows the Christian calendar and wraps up before Ash Wednesday," he added. Thousands will earn their living in the flourishing sector, from hotels and restaurants to fashioning evening wear and hairdressing. All businesses were as excited as the revellers to gear up and make this season a success.