Emilia Clarke stars in "The Pod Generation," a near-future social satire in which a corporation has invented a detachable egg-shaped "womb". Getty Images via AFP/Jerod Harris PARK CITY - "Game of Thrones" star Emilia Clarke kicked off the first in-person Sundance festival in three years, as indie filmmakers and Hollywood stars pulled on their snow boots and headed back to the mountains of Utah. Co-founded by Robert Redford, Sundance has launched countless independent movies, but its absence has been keenly felt at its wintry, high-altitude base in Park City as recent editions were forced online by Covid. "This is my first ever Sundance. So I am over the moon that everyone is filled with the same amount of excitement as I am," said Clarke, whose "The Pod Generation" film premiere headlined Thursday's opening night. READ: Sundance film fest finally returns to mountain "It's really important as well for independent cinema. We need to keep it alive," she told AFP. Clarke stars opposite Chiwetel Ejiofor in "The Pod Generation," a near-future social satire in which a corporation has invented a detachable egg-shaped "womb," allowing couples to bring their babies to term externally. The technology is marketed to spare women from the physical complications of pregnancy -- while conveniently keeping its inventor's female employees at the office, and free of "distractions" from work. READ: Immigrant thriller 'Nanny' wins top prize at Sundance "There are so many aspects of this film that ask so many fundamental questions that I think many of us will be wrestling with, especially now," said Clarke. "I think it's timely, important and beautiful." While Sundance skews to low-budget films, Clarke is one of dozens of Hollywood stars who will make the trek to Park City for high-wattage premieres. READ: Omicron thwarts Grammys, Sundance amid variant surge Despite -- or because of -- headwinds now facing the market for films aimed at adults and arthouse movie theaters, anticipation for Sundance's return this year has been especially high. "It's just exciting to be back at the mountain," said Sundance CEO Joana Vicente at a press conference Thursday, referring to the festival's ritzy ski resort home. Program director Kim Yutani said Sundance stands out from other festivals with countless examples of "directors getting their next gig, or people meeting their next collaborators on the shuttle" between venues. The 2023 Sundance Film Festival runs until January 29.