Some bookshops opened late for the publication. AFP/Daniel Leal LONDON - After months of anticipation and a sustained publicity blitz, Prince Harry's autobiography "Spare" finally went on sale in his native UK on Tuesday, threatening more embarrassment for the royal family. Some British stores stayed open late for the midnight release of the biggest royal book since Harry's mother Princess Diana collaborated with Andrew Morton for "Diana: Her True Story" in 1992. The publication has been accompanied by four television interviews in the UK and the United States, where Harry now lives with wife Meghan. READ: Harry's racism 'olive branch' dismissed in UK as book comes out But the contents of the ghost-written memoir, which will be available in 16 languages and as an audiobook, have already been widely leaked after copies mistakenly went on sale early in Spain. The book contains a claim from Harry that his brother William physically attacked him as they argued about Meghan, according to those who got their hands on one of those copies. It also gives an account of how he lost his virginity, an admission of teenage drug use and a claim he killed 25 people while serving in Afghanistan with the British military, which earned him a rebuke from hardline Islamists the Taliban. READ: Prince Harry says memoirs written to combat 'spin and distortion' The royal family, particularly William and his father King Charles III, will fear what other embarrassing and dangerous revelations contained in the book, as the UK press picks over Harry's claims in minute detail. Prince Harry's autobiography 'Spare' has finally gone on sale after months of anticipation and a sustained publicity blitz Queen Consort Camilla also looks set for a rough ride after Harry used an interview with US network CBS to take aim at his stepmother. Camilla -- long vilified as the "other woman" in Charles and Diana's marriage -- waged a cunning but "dangerous" campaign to win over the press herself, he said, calling her "the villain". READ: Prince Harry book gets critical mauling in UK The book comes on the back of a six-hour Netflix docuseries "Harry & Meghan", in which the couple again aired their grievances with the royal family and the British media. If the couple were hoping to elicit sympathy, recent polls appear to show that they are having the opposite effect -- at least in the UK. A YouGov poll on Monday found that 64 percent now have a negative view of the once-popular ginger prince -- his lowest-ever rating -- and that Meghan also scores dismally. And after days of TV trailers and newspaper leaks, a relatively low figure of 4.1 million people tuned in to the first of Harry's interviews, with Britain's ITV, according to official ratings data.