Here are the best five South African golfers ready to add silverware to their trophy cabinet in 2023. Another big year lies in store in the golfers world and South Africa could have some major players when it comes to winning the biggest titles. Here are the best five South African golfers ready to add silverware to their trophy cabinet in 2023. 1. Christiaan Bezuidenhout Christiaan Bezuidenhout has a solid overall game which has brought him success three times on the DP World Tour, but he has yet to win on the PGA Tour, despite performing well. Bezuidenhout's top results on the PGA Tour last year include finishing T17 at the Sony Open in Hawaii, T14 at the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am, T20 at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, T12 at the AT&T Byron Nelson, T15 at the Charles Schwab Challenge, T2 at the John Deere Classic, T16 at the Genesis Scottish Open, T12 at the BMW Championship, and T20 at the Shriners Children's Open. The 28-year-old made three appearances on the DP World Tour towards the end of 2022, placing T5 at the Nedbank Golf Challenge, T3 at the Joburg Open, and T26 at the Alfred Dunhill Championship. Bezuidenhout seldom misses the cut at tournaments and can be rewarded with a victory on the PGA Tour this year as he performs consistently well on the golf course. 2. Dean Burmester Dean Burmester turned pro in 2010 and has competed on many tours over the years, with his best results being victories on the DP World Tour at the 2017 Tshwane Open and the 2021 Tenerife Open. The 33-year-old's notable results last year include placing second at the Dimension Data Pro-Am (Challenge Tour), second at the Steyn City Championship (DP World Tour), T10 at the Genesis Scottish Open, T11 at the Open Championship, T4 at the Albertsons Boise Open(Korn Ferry Tour), T5 at the Korn Ferry Tour Championship, 4th at the Sanderson Farms Championship(PGA Tour), T5 at the Investec South African Open Championship, and T7 at the Alfred Dunhill Championship. Burmester hits a long ball and has been posting excellent results lately, suggesting that he will return to winning ways this year. 3. Thriston Lawrence Thriston Lawrence has achieved outstanding results since joining the DP World Tour, winning three times in a calendar year and is being widely tipped to have another big year ahead of him. Lawrence was crowned champion at the 2021 Joburg Open, the 2022 Omega European Masters, and the 2022 Investec South African Open Championship. Additionally, the 26-year-old placed T2 at the Magical Kenya Open, T9 at the Pecanwood Classic, T8 at the Steyn City Championship, 3rd at the Horizon Irish Open, T8 at the D+D Real Czech Masters, T6 at the Andalucía Masters, and T13 at the Nedbank Golf Challenge. Lawrence is an excellent putter and will fancy his chances to win more tournaments in 2023, as he has taken to life on the DP World Tour in his stride. 4. Garrick Higgo Garrick Higgo burst onto the golfing scene by winning three DP World Tour events and one PGA Tour title in nine months. The talented left-handed Higgo was victorious at the 2020 Open de Portugal, the 2021 Gran Canaria Lopesan Open, the 2021 Canary Islands Championship, and the 2021 Palmetto Championship. After that whirlwind beginning to his professional golfing career, the 23-year-old struggled with his approach and touch around the greens last year, with his best results being T25 at the Tournament of Champions, T21 at the WM Phoenix Open, T4 at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, and T18 at the Memorial Tournament. Despite his lack of consistency, it will only be a matter of time before Higgo rediscovers his iron play and challenge for more titles. 5. MJ Daffue Unheralded MJ Daffue made a splash in his debut at a Major when he grabbed the overnight lead after round two at the 2022 US Open, although he eventually finished T31 overall. The 34-year-old journeyman had an excellent season on the Korn Ferry Tour, earning his 2022/23 PGA Tour card. He placed T15 at the Bahamas Great Exuma Classic, T9 at the Astara Golf Championship, T2 at the LECOM Suncoast Classic, T4 at the Lake Charles Championship, 3rd at the Visit Knoxville Open, 3rd at AdventHealth Championship, T6 at the Ascendant, T12 at the Pinnacle Bank Championship, and T2 at the Albertsons Boise Open. Daffue has had an indifferent start to his fledgling career in the PGA Tour, missing the cut multiple times, with his best result being T29 at the Butterfield Bermuda Championship in eight starts. He returned home to compete on the DP World Tour and bounced back to form by placing T15 at the Investec South African Open Championship and T9 at the Alfred Dunhill Championship. The big-hitting Daffue will relish the chance to compete with the best in the world on the PGA Tour this season and has the game to cause an upset or two.