England's James Anderson is the world's top-ranked bowler for the sixth time in his career. AFP/Marty Melville WELLINGTON - England named an unchanged team for the second and final Test against New Zealand in Wellington starting Friday, after captain Ben Stokes said they had played "the perfect game" to go 1-0 up in the series. The tourists dominated the first Test in Mount Maunganui to win by 267 runs with 40-year-old fast bowler James Anderson claiming seven wickets. The haul has seen him return to the top of the Test bowling world rankings for the sixth time in his career and the first time since 2018, deposing Australia captain Pat Cummins. Stokes was not surprised Anderson had returned to the pinnacle after claiming match figures of 7-54 at the Bay Oval, forming part of a potent pace trio with Stuart Broad and Ollie Robinson. "I don't think he'll be that fussed by it, to be honest. He'll just keep doing his thing," Stokes said on Thursday. "I think, and a lot of guys in the dressing room do, that Jimmy has been certainly one of the best in the world for a long, long time. "He's someone I know I can throw the ball to when I need a wicket, so having someone like him along with Broady and Robbo is a real treat to be able to captain at the moment." Stokes said consideration had been given to resting one or more of his front-line seamers for the Basin Reserve contest but all three informed him on Thursday they felt fresh and ready to go. - 'Tough sessions' - He hinted the trio may have been motivated by the grass-laden nature of the pitch, which appears to hold the promise of sideways movement. "It is a fine line between picking your strongest 11 but then also making sure your bowlers are a hundred percent ready," Stokes said. "It was pretty easy to name the team, once they gave the all-clear they were all good to go." Last week's win was England's 10th from 11 Tests under Stokes, and England's first on New Zealand soil in 15 years. Stokes was proud his team achieved it by adhering to a game plan that involved piling pressure on New Zealand's top order when they batted in seam-friendly conditions under lights. "When we feel like it's time to put the other team under pressure, that's what we try and do and we were able to do that," Stokes said. "I think we played near enough the perfect game, considering it was a day-night Test match." A draw or win in Wellington would subject New Zealand to their first home series defeat in six years.