A fountain in New York's Bryant Park is frozen over. AFP/Yuki Iwamura NEW YORK - An Arctic blast that brought "frostquakes" to parts of the United States saw the country record its lowest-ever wind-chill temperature. Atop Mount Washington in the northeastern state of New Hampshire, the wind-chill factor reached minus 78 degrees Celsius overnight, the National Weather Service (NWS) said. The service's office in the town of Gray, Maine, said in a tweet that it set a new US record for the lowest wind-chill temperature in the United States. CNN reported that it broke the previous record of minus 76C set in Alaska. The previous low at Mount Washington was minus 74C, recorded there in 2004, the Weather Channel said. Steam rises from Boston Harbor in Massachusetts on February 4, 2023 At almost 1,920m, Mount Washington is the highest peak in the northeastern US and is known for having some of the world's worst weather. Temperatures of minus 43C and wind gusts of over 177km/h combined for the historic low. The NWS office in Caribou, Maine, said a wind chill of minus 51C was recorded in the small town of Frenchville, just south of the border with Canada. The office said they had received reports of "frostquakes," also called "cryoseisms," in the region. The NWS said the chills would be "something northern and eastern Maine has not seen since similar outbreaks in 1982 and 1988." People walk on February 4, 2023 in New York, where temperatures were expected to reach a high of 27F (-3C) "Most stations are forecast to see their lowest wind chills in decades or, in some cases, the lowest ever recorded," the service added. It warned that frostbite to exposed skin can occur within five minutes in such conditions. "The dangers of being caught unprepared without shelter from the elements and without proper winter survival gear cannot be stressed enough," the service wrote. Extreme weather warnings covering several million people were in effect across much of New England, Quebec and eastern Canada.