eNCA logo  JOHANNESBURG - eNCA.com has compiled a checklist of the top news stories this week. Everything from De Ruyter's allegations of corruption, to devastating floods and the greylisting of SA.   Not millions, but at least R1bn is stolen from Eskom every month according to outgoing CEO Andre de Ruyter. De Ruyter says his attempts to stop the scourge could be behind last year's attempt on his life. De Ruyter was speaking on My Guest Tonight With Annika Larsen.  The Health Department has confirmed the first cholera death in South Africa. The department says cholera mainly spreads through contaminated or polluted water. People can become infected directly through drinking contaminated water, or indirectly through eating contaminated food. Symptoms include diarrhoea dehydration, vomiting and body weakness.  File: A general view of the headquarters of Eskom. AFP/Gianluigi Guercia  Call on president to act on De Ruyter claims  OUTA's Wayne Duvenage says the ANC government cannot ignore the allegations made by former Eskom CEO, Andre de Ruyter. De Ruyter made claims about ongoing corruption by senior politicians in an interview with Annika Larsen. Duvenage says the ANC knows its members are to blame for the country’s energy crisis.  SARS, SAPS seize cocaine worth over R1bn  The South African Revenue Service customs and South African Police Service have seized 300kg of cocaine at a Durban harbour.  DA wants access to info around De Ruyter's allegations  The Democratic Alliance has applied to obtain all information and evidence Eskom has regarding the alleged high-level politician involved in looting the SOE.  Eskom has appointed Calib Cassim as interim CEO with immediate effect. This comes after Andre de Ruyter’s abrupt departure from the company on Wednesday. Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana. GCIS  Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana delivered the 2023 Budget Speech on Wednesday.  It's the stuff fictional crime novels are made of but in South Africa's case, it's all too real. The fallout after Andre de Ruyter's departure from Eskom has people talking, with politicians calling for him to provide evidence of his allegations, and pending criminal charges.   Strong winds and heavy rains continue to increase in strength as Cyclone Freddy makes landfall over Vilankulos in Mozambique.   South Africa has been added to the Financial Action Task Force's list of greylisted countries. SA is on the list of nations that have failed to adequately put in place measures to tackle illicit financial outflows. 