England's Joe Root celebrates 150 runs during day two of the second cricket Test match between New Zealand and England in Wellington. AFP/Marty Melville WELLINGTON - James Anderson validated his elevation to top spot in the world Test bowling rankings as England took full control of the second Test against New Zealand on Saturday. Veteran seamer Anderson took 3-37, sending the Black Caps stumbling to 96-6 at tea on day two in Wellington, after England declared their first innings at 435-8 just before lunch. Spinner Jack Leach also took three scalps, leaving New Zealand staring at a 339-run deficit ahead of what looks like being a challenging final session under cloudy skies at the Basin Reserve. England are on course for a sweep of the two-match series, having won the first Test by 267 runs in Mount Maunganui by employing the same mix of aggressive batting and potent seam bowling. Joe Root was unbeaten on 153 when captain Ben Stokes declared, leaving his bowlers half an hour to attack the Black Caps before lunch. Anderson answered the call, removing Devon Conway (0) and Kane Williamson (4) to have the hosts languishing at 12-2. The exacting paceman removed Will Young (2) after the break to underscore why he'd been reinstated to No 1 in the ICC player rankings released this week - the oldest player to hold the perch, at 40. All three batsmen feathered edges to gloveman Ben Foakes, extending the number of Test victims caught by a wicketkeeper off Anderson to 188 - 36 more than any other bowler. Left-handers Tom Latham (35) and Henry Nicholls (30) launched a rearguard but both fell when attempting to reverse-sweep Leach (3-28), offering catches to fielders around the bat. Leach dismissed Daryl Mitchell with the final ball before tea, leaving Tom Blundell as the unbeaten batsman on 12. Earlier, England lost five wickets and added a further 120 runs in an entertaining opening session after resuming at 315-3. Harry Brook fell in the third over for 186, having added just two to his overnight score. His blazing knock formed part of a 302-run stand with Root - the second-highest in England's Test history against New Zealand - having rescued the tourists from 21-3 early on day one. Root effortlessly advanced from his overnight 101 to surpass 150 for the 14th time in his career. The 32-year-old received lively support from Stokes - who blasted 27 off 28 balls - Stuart Broad (14) and Ollie Robinson (18). Root struck 10 fours and three sixes, including a reverse ramp shot that cleared the boundary rope off the fourth ball he faced on Saturday, from Tim Southee. Seamer Matt Henry took the key wicket of Brook, holding onto a sharp caught-and-bowled chance, to return 4-100.