The Free World Initiative has joined other civic organisations that want to hold the government accountable, for failing to act against gender-based violence. CEO of the Free World Initiative, Lebo Motau spoke with eNCA's Morena Mothupi. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Government needs to start taking accountability for the country's gender-based violence scourge. Civic organisations say not enough is being done to prevent gender-based violence and victims are being let down by the country's policies. READ: GBV Epidemic | ANCWL wants justice for Jennifer Motlhomi Free World Initiative CEO, Lebo Motau, says there is no political will to address gender-based violence in South Africa. She said, "leadership has not shown any form of willingness to ensure that we are kept safe. I was appalled on how little time was given to gender based violence, it was half a page in his speech and nothing addressing the real issues." "The fact that a woman is killed every three hours in South Africa is not addressed. The fact that a woman is raped every 25 seconds in South Africa is not being addressed." "The fact that the conviction rate is so low and the fact that all these laws claimed to be put in place to ensure that women and children are kept safe are not actually being followed through. During the summit President Ramaphosa claimed that this is now going to be seen as pandemic that it yet everything takes precedent above the safety of women. Once again I though he will put more emphasis and highlight the fact that women have been crying about the fact that we are not safe and nothing tangible was said." "He just keep calling us as these numbers yet not enough is being done in terms of training the police officers, in terms of ensuring that the response rate is faster. When we cry out that we're being abused, we still have so many people who are in leadership positions in public office who've been accused of being perpetrators of violence but yet they are still in positions of power." "What is being done to show that leadership is saying no, we need to make sure that sooner the women says I've been violated, steps are taken to make sure that she is kept safe."